.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: ''
assignees: 
  - vishalnarkhede
  - madsroskar

---

<!--
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE PROCEEDING:

Did you check docs? - https://getstream.io/chat/docs/sdk/reactnative

If you are looking for an answer to "how to implement/do ... using xx component?" question, please check the Guides section of the docs. If you can't find an answer there, please leave a comment here - https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-react-native/issues/184 and I will try to add/include a sample code or example  as soon as possible to Guides section of docs. This way it can help the other devs who are looking for same answer. Also if you have some feedback regarding docs, please don't hesitate to comment there.

Your co-operation is really-really appreciated in this manner. Thanks and happy coding :)
-->

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**Dev environment info (please complete/provide the following information):**

- Package version (stream-chat-react-native/stream-chat-expo)
- react-native or expo version
- Device/Emulator (android/ios) and OS version

**To Reproduce**
Steps to reproduce the behavior:

1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error

**Expected behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Additional context**
Add any other context about the problem here.

**Screenshots**
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.

Commit message:

chore: update bug report and create feature request template issues (#1321)
* chore: update bug report and create feature request template issues

* Update bug_report.md

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: 'Needs Triaging'
assignees: ''

---

<!--
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE PROCEEDING:

Did you check docs? - https://getstream.io/chat/docs/sdk/reactnative

If you are looking for an answer to "how to implement/do ... using xx component?" question, please check the Guides section of the docs.
If you can't find an answer there, please create an issue, and we will try to add/include a sample code or example to the Guides section of docs. 
This way it can help the other devs who are looking for the same answer. 
Also if you have some feedback regarding docs, please don't hesitate to comment there.

Your co-operation is really-really appreciated in this manner. Thanks and happy coding :)
-->

**Describe the bug**
A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

**Dev environment info (please complete/provide the following information):**

- Package version (stream-chat-react-native/stream-chat-expo)
- react-native or expo version
- Device/Emulator (android/ios) and OS version

**To Reproduce**
Steps to reproduce the behavior:

1. Go to '...'
2. Click on '....'
3. Scroll down to '....'
4. See error

**Expected behavior**
A clear and concise description of what you expected to happen.

**Additional context**
Add any other context about the problem here.

**Screenshots**
If applicable, add screenshots to help explain your problem.
