docusaurus/docs/reactnative/guides/upgrade_helper.mdx, before:

---
id: upgrade-helper
title: Upgrade Helper
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import messagePropChangeBefore from '../assets/guides/upgrade-helper-v2-to-v3/message_prop_change_before.png';
import messagePropChangeAfter from '../assets/guides/upgrade-helper-v2-to-v3/message_prop_change_after.png';


Guide to help with upgrades `stream-chat-react-native` library.

## Upgrade to V3

Version 3.x of React Native SDK has been a major architectural change. The new implementation takes advantage of React Context along with many popular
community libraries such as [Reanimated V2](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-reanimated/docs) to deliver a superior chat experience.
Upgrading will require re-implementing your integration but will yield performance and functional benefits.

### Dependency changes

Before you begin the upgrade, we would recommend you to comment out all the component customizations related props on `ChannelList`, `Channel` or `MessageList` that you may have in your application.
This way you can test setup part of upgrade independently from customizations.

#### Add peer-dependencies

v3 has introduced plenty of new peer-dependencies for the package. So please install the required dependencies:

```bash
yarn add @react-native-community/blur @react-native-community/cameraroll @react-native-community/netinfo @stream-io/flat-list-mvcp react-native-document-picker react-native-fs react-native-gesture-handler react-native-haptic-feedback react-native-haptic-feedback react-native-image-crop-picker react-native-image-resizer react-native-reanimated react-native-safe-area-context react-native-share react-native-svg
```

Go through following links for necessary additional installation steps for the peer dependencies:

- `react-native` - [additional installation steps](https://reactnative.dev/docs/image#gif-and-webp-support-on-android)
- `react-native-reanimated` - [additional installation steps](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-reanimated/docs/installation).
- `react-native-image-crop-picker` - [additional installation steps](https://github.com/ivpusic/react-native-image-crop-picker#step-3)
- `react-native-cameraroll` - [additional installation steps](https://github.com/react-native-cameraroll/react-native-cameraroll#permissions)
- `react-native-gesture-handler` - [additional installation steps](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-gesture-handler/docs/#android)
- `@react-native-community/blur` - [additional installation steps](/reactnative/basics/troubleshooting#blurview-crashing)

#### Remove `react-native-get-random-values`

Remove the `react-native-get-random-values` dependency (unless you have used it explicitely in your application) which was required in v2 of `stream-chat-react-native`.

```bash
yarn remove react-native-get-random-values
```

Also remove the following line from your root (`index.js`/`index.ts`) file

```tsx {1}
import * from react-native-get-random-values; // <-- REMOVE THIS
import { AppRegistry } from 'react-native';

import App from './App';
import { name as appName } from './app.json';

AppRegistry.registerComponent(appName, () => App);
```

#### Import gesture handler dependency

Import gesture handler dependency at the top of the entry file before anything else, this is usually your App.js or index.js file.

```tsx {1}
import 'react-native-gesture-handler';
import { AppRegistry } from 'react-native';

import App from './App';
import { name as appName } from './app.json';

AppRegistry.registerComponent(appName, () => App);
```

#### Add `stream-chat@3.x.x` dependency

Minimum supported version of `stream-chat` - v3.x.
Please check the [Compatibility Table](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-react-native#-react-native-compatibility) to ensure you are using
correct version of `stream-chat` dependency.

```bash
yarn add stream-chat@3.11.1
```

### Add `OverlayProvider` component

[`OverlayProvider`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx) component should wrap the entire chat screen in your application. If you are using react-navigation, this component
should wrap your stack provider. Please read more details in our [Configuring Components docs](../basics/hello_stream_chat.mdx#configuring-ui-components)

```tsx
import { OverlayProvider } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

export const Screen = () =>
  <OverlayProvider>
    {/** App components */}
  </OverlayProvider>
```

### Theme changes

v2 of SDK used [Styled Components](https://styled-components.com/) for theming purpose, which we have abondoned in v3.
So following pattern of theming will **NOT** work anymore

```tsx
const theme = {
  'message.actionSheet.titleContainer': `background-color: 'black', padding: 10px`,
  'message.actionSheet.titleText': `color: 'white'`,
};

<Chat client={chatClient} style={theme}>
</Chat>
```

We have published a separate [guide](../customization/theming.mdx) for how to apply custom theme on chat components.


At this point if you launch the application, it should be working fine (assuming all the component customizations have been commented out) 🎉

### Message customization prop change

Message UI is the most common usecase of customization. In v2 of the library, you could provide a `Message` prop to `MessageList` component
to customize message UI. But in v3, you need to provide `MessageSimple` prop on [`Channel`](../core-components/channel.mdx#messagesimple) component instead.

More details are mentioned in next section regarding prop changes.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td align='center' width="33%">
      <img src={messagePropChangeBefore}/>
    </td>
    <td align='center' width="33%">
      <img src={messagePropChangeAfter}/>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr></tr>
  <tr>
    <td align='center'>Before upgrade to v3</td>
    <td align='center'>After upgrade to v3</td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Moving from prop drilling to context

As part of v3, we have tried to get rid of prop drilling pattern as much as possible. We are moving towards using [react's context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html)
based architecture.

Let's take an [example](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-react-native/wiki/Cookbook-(2.x.x)#senders-name-at-bottom-of-the-message) from v2 documentation
which shows how to render message sender's name at bottom of the message:

To customize `MessageFooter`, you had to first create separate component to render `MessageSimple` component and then provide prop `MessageFooter` to `MessageSimple`.
This is what the prop drilling looked like in v2 of the SDK. But in v3, this is much simplified as you can customize each of these deeply nested components
by providing relevant prop on one of the following 3 core components (depending on which component needs to be customized).

- [`OverlayProvider`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx#props)
- [`Channel`](../core-components/channel.mdx#props)
- [`ChannelList`](../core-components/channel_list.mdx#props)

Additionally you have access to all the required values through contexts (`props.message` in this example).
Please check documentation of [contexts](../customization/contexts.mdx) for all the available contexts.

<Tabs
  defaultValue='v2'
  values={[
    { label: 'MessageFooter customization in v2', value: 'v2' },
    { label: 'MessageFooter customization in v3', value: 'v3' },
  ]}
>
<TabItem value='v2'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, MessageList, MessageSimple } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const MessageWithSenderNameAtBottom = props => {
      return (
        <MessageSimple
          {...props}
          MessageFooter={props => <Text>{props.message.user.name}</Text>}
        />
      );
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <Channel channel={channel}>
        <MessageList Message={MessageWithSenderNameAtBottom} />
      </Channel>
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value='v3'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, MessageList, useMessageContext } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const FooterWithSenderName = () => {
      const { message } = useMessageContext();

      return <Text>{props.message.user.name}</Text>;
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <Channel channel={channel} MessageFooter={FooterWithSenderName}>
        <MessageList />
      </Channel>
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


Let's check a similar example for [`ChannelList`](../core-component/channel_list.mdx) component. To customize avatar component of channel, within `ChannelList`, you had to
first customize `Preview` component which renders list item, and then provide avatar component on it. In v3, you can simply pass the `PreviewAvatar`
component on `ChannelList` without having to go through prop drilling. Additionally you have access to [`ChannelsContext`](../contexts/channels_context.mdx)
which provides access to all the necessary values and methods which `ChannelList` relies on.

<Tabs
  defaultValue='v2'
  values={[
    { label: 'PreviewAvatar customization in v2', value: 'v2' },
    { label: 'PreviewAvatar customization in v3', value: 'v3' },
  ]}
>
<TabItem value='v2'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, ChannelList, ChannelPreviewMessenger } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const CustomAvatar = props => {/* custom component */};
    const PreviewWithCustomAvatar = props => {
      return (
        <ChannelPreviewMessenger
          {...props}
          PreviewAvatar={CustomAvatar}
        />
      );
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <ChannelList Preview={PreviewWithCustomAvatar} />
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value='v3'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, ChannelList, useChannelsContext } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const CustomAvatar = props => {
      const { refreshing, reloadList } = useChannelsContext();
      const { channel } = props;

      return (/* custom component */)
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <ChannelList PreviewAvatar={CustomAvatar} />
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Reaction customization

Rendering of reactions on message and reaction picker has changed as part of v3. There three major differences in reactions related UX.

- Reactions were rendered as simple text emojis in v2, while reactions get rendered as SVG icons in v3.
- Reaction picker used to show up as popup right above message in v2, on the other hand reaction picker will show up in overlay in v3.

Please check the guide on [Message with custom reactions](../guides/message-customization/#message-with-custom-reactions) for details.

Additionally please take a look at following props to customize reactions related components:

- [`OverlayReactions`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx#overlayreactions)
- [`OverlayReactionList`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx#overlayreactionlist)
- [`ReactionList`](../core-components/channel.mdx#reactionlist)

### Attachment picker

In v2 of library, attachment picker was rendendered as actionsheet containing option for picking files from of native image and file picker.
This UX has been modified in v3 of library, where attachment picker gets rendered as built-in bottomsheet.

Its possible to use actionsheet based attachment picker (similar to v2 implementation). Please check the docs on [implementation of native image picker](../guides/message_input_customization.mdx#replacing-attachmentpicker-with-native-image-picker)

Commit message:

docs: added message action changes

docusaurus/docs/reactnative/guides/upgrade_helper.mdx, after:

---
id: upgrade-helper
title: Upgrade Helper
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

import messagePropChangeBefore from '../assets/guides/upgrade-helper-v2-to-v3/message_prop_change_before.png';
import messagePropChangeAfter from '../assets/guides/upgrade-helper-v2-to-v3/message_prop_change_after.png';
import attachmentPicker from '../assets/guides/upgrade-helper-v2-to-v3/attachment_picker.png';


Guide to help with upgrades of `stream-chat-react-native` library.

## Upgrade to V3

Version 3.x of React Native SDK has been a major architectural change. The new implementation takes advantage of React Context along with many popular
community libraries such as [Reanimated V2](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-reanimated/docs) to deliver a superior chat experience.
Upgrading will require re-implementing your integration but will yield performance and functional benefits.

### Dependency changes

Before you begin the upgrade, we would recommend you to comment out all the customization related props on `ChannelList`, `Channel`, `MessageList` and `MessageInput` that you may have in your application.
This way you can test setup part of upgrade independently from customizations.

#### Add peer-dependencies

v3 has introduced plenty of new peer-dependencies for the package. So please install the required dependencies:

```bash
yarn add @react-native-community/blur @react-native-community/cameraroll @react-native-community/netinfo @stream-io/flat-list-mvcp react-native-document-picker react-native-fs react-native-gesture-handler react-native-haptic-feedback react-native-haptic-feedback react-native-image-crop-picker react-native-image-resizer react-native-reanimated react-native-safe-area-context react-native-share react-native-svg
```

Go through following links for necessary additional installation steps for the peer dependencies:

- `react-native` - [additional installation steps](https://reactnative.dev/docs/image#gif-and-webp-support-on-android)
- `react-native-reanimated` - [additional installation steps](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-reanimated/docs/installation).
- `react-native-image-crop-picker` - [additional installation steps](https://github.com/ivpusic/react-native-image-crop-picker#step-3)
- `react-native-cameraroll` - [additional installation steps](https://github.com/react-native-cameraroll/react-native-cameraroll#permissions)
- `react-native-gesture-handler` - [additional installation steps](https://docs.swmansion.com/react-native-gesture-handler/docs/#android)
- `@react-native-community/blur` - [additional installation steps](/reactnative/basics/troubleshooting#blurview-crashing)

If you are using expo, the please install the corresponding dependencies instead.

```bash
expo install @react-native-community/netinfo expo-blur expo-document-picker expo-file-system expo-haptics expo-image-manipulator expo-image-picker expo-media-library expo-sharing react-native-gesture-handler react-native-reanimated react-native-safe-area-context react-native-svg
```

#### Remove `react-native-get-random-values`

Remove the `react-native-get-random-values` dependency (unless you have used it explicitely in your application) which was required in v2 of `stream-chat-react-native`.

```bash
yarn remove react-native-get-random-values
```

Also remove the following line from your root (`index.js`/`index.ts`) file

```tsx {1}
import * from react-native-get-random-values; // <-- REMOVE THIS
import { AppRegistry } from 'react-native';

import App from './App';
import { name as appName } from './app.json';

AppRegistry.registerComponent(appName, () => App);
```

#### Import gesture handler dependency

Import gesture handler dependency at the top of the entry file before anything else, this is usually your App.js or index.js file.

```tsx {1}
import 'react-native-gesture-handler';
import { AppRegistry } from 'react-native';

import App from './App';
import { name as appName } from './app.json';

AppRegistry.registerComponent(appName, () => App);
```

#### Add `stream-chat@3.x.x` dependency

Minimum supported version of `stream-chat` - v3.x.
Please check the [Compatibility Table](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-react-native#-react-native-compatibility) to ensure you are using
correct version of `stream-chat` dependency.

```bash
yarn add stream-chat@3.11.1
```

### Add `OverlayProvider` component

[`OverlayProvider`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx) component should wrap the entire chat screen in your application. If you are using react-navigation, this component
should wrap your stack provider. Please read more details in our [Configuring Components docs](../basics/hello_stream_chat.mdx#configuring-ui-components)

```tsx
import { OverlayProvider } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

export const Screen = () =>
  <OverlayProvider>
    {/** App components */}
  </OverlayProvider>
```

### Theme changes

v2 of SDK used [Styled Components](https://styled-components.com/) for theming purpose, which we have abondoned in v3.
So following pattern of theming will **NOT** work anymore

```tsx
const theme = {
  'message.actionSheet.titleContainer': `background-color: 'black', padding: 10px`,
  'message.actionSheet.titleText': `color: 'white'`,
};

<Chat client={chatClient} style={theme}>
</Chat>
```

We have published a separate [guide](../customization/theming.mdx) for how to apply custom theme on chat components.


At this point if you launch the application, it should be working fine (assuming all the component customizations have been commented out) 🎉.

### Message customization prop change

Message UI is the most common usecase of customization. In v2 of the library, you could provide a `Message` prop to `MessageList` component
to customize message UI. But in v3, you need to provide `MessageSimple` prop on [`Channel`](../core-components/channel.mdx#messagesimple) component instead.

More details are mentioned in next section regarding prop changes.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td align='center' width="33%">
      <img src={messagePropChangeBefore}/>
    </td>
    <td align='center' width="33%">
      <img src={messagePropChangeAfter}/>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr></tr>
  <tr>
    <td align='center'>Before upgrade to v3</td>
    <td align='center'>After upgrade to v3</td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Moving from prop drilling to context

As part of v3, we have tried to get rid of prop drilling pattern as much as possible. We are moving towards using [react's context](https://reactjs.org/docs/context.html)
based architecture.

Let's take an [example](https://github.com/GetStream/stream-chat-react-native/wiki/Cookbook-(2.x.x)#senders-name-at-bottom-of-the-message) from v2 documentation
which shows how to render message sender's name at bottom of the message:

To customize `MessageFooter`, you had to first create separate component to render `MessageSimple` component and then provide prop `MessageFooter` to `MessageSimple`.
This is what the prop drilling looked like in v2 of the SDK. But in v3, this is much simplified as you can customize each of these deeply nested components
by providing relevant prop on one of the following 3 core components (depending on which component needs to be customized).

- [`OverlayProvider`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx#props)
- [`Channel`](../core-components/channel.mdx#props)
- [`ChannelList`](../core-components/channel_list.mdx#props)

Additionally you have access to all the required values through contexts (`props.message` in this example).
Please check documentation of [contexts](../customization/contexts.mdx) for all the available contexts.

<Tabs
  defaultValue='v2'
  values={[
    { label: 'MessageFooter customization in v2', value: 'v2' },
    { label: 'MessageFooter customization in v3', value: 'v3' },
  ]}
>
<TabItem value='v2'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, MessageList, MessageSimple } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const MessageWithSenderNameAtBottom = props => {
      return (
        <MessageSimple
          {...props}
          MessageFooter={props => <Text>{props.message.user.name}</Text>}
        />
      );
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <Channel channel={channel}>
        <MessageList Message={MessageWithSenderNameAtBottom} />
      </Channel>
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value='v3'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, MessageList, useMessageContext } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const FooterWithSenderName = () => {
      const { message } = useMessageContext();

      return <Text>{props.message.user.name}</Text>;
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <Channel channel={channel} MessageFooter={FooterWithSenderName}>
        <MessageList />
      </Channel>
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


Let's check a similar example for [`ChannelList`](../core-component/channel_list.mdx) component. To customize avatar component of channel, within `ChannelList`, you had to
first customize `Preview` component which renders list item, and then provide avatar component on it. In v3, you can simply pass the `PreviewAvatar`
component on `ChannelList` without having to go through prop drilling. Additionally you have access to [`ChannelsContext`](../contexts/channels_context.mdx)
which provides access to all the necessary values and methods which `ChannelList` relies on.

<Tabs
  defaultValue='v2'
  values={[
    { label: 'PreviewAvatar customization in v2', value: 'v2' },
    { label: 'PreviewAvatar customization in v3', value: 'v3' },
  ]}
>
<TabItem value='v2'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, ChannelList, ChannelPreviewMessenger } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const CustomAvatar = props => {/* custom component */};
    const PreviewWithCustomAvatar = props => {
      return (
        <ChannelPreviewMessenger
          {...props}
          PreviewAvatar={CustomAvatar}
        />
      );
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <ChannelList Preview={PreviewWithCustomAvatar} />
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value='v3'>

  ```tsx
    import { Chat, Channel, ChannelList, useChannelsContext } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

    const CustomAvatar = props => {
      const { refreshing, reloadList } = useChannelsContext();
      const { channel } = props;

      return (/* custom component */)
    };

    // In your rendering logic
    <Chat client={client}>
      <ChannelList PreviewAvatar={CustomAvatar} />
    </Chat>
  ```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Message action changes

In v2 of the library, message actions such as "Copy Message", "Edit Message" etc, were rendered in actionsheet. In v3 of library these
actions get rendered within overlay when you long press the message. Also we have provided finer control over customizing these actions
as per usecase. Please take a look at guide for [customizing message actions](./message_actions_customization.mdx) for reference.

### Reaction customization changes

Rendering of reactions on message and reaction picker has changed as part of v3. There three major differences in reactions related UX.

- Reactions were rendered as simple text emojis in v2, while reactions get rendered as SVG icons in v3.
- Reaction picker used to show up as popup right above message in v2, on the other hand reaction picker will show up in overlay in v3.

Please check the guide on [Message with custom reactions](../guides/message-customization/#message-with-custom-reactions) for details.

Additionally please take a look at following props to customize reactions related components:

- [`OverlayReactions`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx#overlayreactions)
- [`OverlayReactionList`](../core-components/overlay_provider.mdx#overlayreactionlist)
- [`ReactionList`](../core-components/channel.mdx#reactionlist)

### Attachment picker changes

In v2 of library, attachment picker was rendendered as actionsheet containing option for picking files from of native image and file picker.
This UX has been modified in v3 of library, where attachment picker gets rendered as built-in bottomsheet.

<img src={attachmentPicker} />

Its possible to use actionsheet based attachment picker (similar to v2 implementation). Please check the docs on [implementation of native image picker](../guides/message_input_customization.mdx#replacing-attachmentpicker-with-native-image-picker)
