docusaurus/docs/reactnative/ui-components/channel_preview_unread_count.mdx, before:

---
id: channel-preview-unread-count
title: ChannelPreviewUnreadCount
---

import MaxUnreadCount from '../common-content/ui-components/channel-preview-messenger/props/max_unread_count.mdx';
import Unread from '../common-content/ui-components/channel-preview-messenger/props/unread.mdx';
import Channel from '../common-content/ui-components/channel-preview-messenger/props/channel.mdx';

The `ChannelPreviewUnreadCount` is the UI component for displaying the unread count badge for each channel on a list.

![](../assets/api-references/components/channel-list/visual_guide_1.png) <!-- Replace with propert screenshot -->

## Basic Usage

You can have a custom channel preview unread count component by setting the `PreviewUnreadCount` prop on any of its parent UI components.

```jsx
import { ChannelList } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

const CustomPreviewUnreadCount = ({ unread, maxUnreadCount }) => {
    return (
        <View style={[someOtherStyle, { backgroundColor: 'blue' }]}>
            <Text numberOfLines={1}>
                {unread > maxUnreadCount ? `${maxUnreadCount}+` : unread}
            </Text>
        </View>
    );
}

<ChannelList PreviewUnreadCount={CustomPreviewUnreadCount} />
```

## Props

### channel

<Channel/>

### maxUnreadCount

<MaxUnreadCount/>

### unread

<Unread/>

Commit message:

some updates to UI components

docusaurus/docs/reactnative/ui-components/channel_preview_unread_count.mdx, after:

---
id: channel-preview-unread-count
title: ChannelPreviewUnreadCount
---

import MaxUnreadCount from '../common-content/ui-components/channel-preview-messenger/props/max_unread_count.mdx';
import Unread from '../common-content/ui-components/channel-preview-messenger/props/unread.mdx';
import Channel from '../common-content/ui-components/channel-preview-messenger/props/channel.mdx';

The `ChannelPreviewUnreadCount` is the UI component for displaying the unread count badge for each channel on a list.

You can replace this default UI component using the `PreviewUnreadCount` prop on [ChannelList](../core-components/channellist#preview).

```jsx
import { ChannelList } from 'stream-chat-react-native';

const CustomPreviewUnreadCount = ({ unread, maxUnreadCount }) => {
    return (
        <View style={[someOtherStyle, { backgroundColor: 'blue' }]}>
            <Text numberOfLines={1}>
                {unread > maxUnreadCount ? `${maxUnreadCount}+` : unread}
            </Text>
        </View>
    );
}

<ChannelList PreviewUnreadCount={CustomPreviewUnreadCount} />
```

## Props

### channel

<Channel/>

### maxUnreadCount

<MaxUnreadCount/>

### unread

<Unread/>
